add webhooks documentation (#117)
foxglove/docs: docs/13-webhooks/1-concepts.md

---
title: Concepts
description: Description of concepts used in Webhooks.
---

import AccountRequiredHeader from "../../src/components/docs/icons/AccountRequiredHeader";

<AccountRequiredHeader badgeText="Closed Beta, contact us for access" />

### Webhooks

> A webhook subscribes your endpoint to notifications for a set of event types.

Reviewer: what's my endpoint? Seems like we need to introduce that first.

A webhook can be disabled and re-enabled. When disabled, notifications will not be delivered to your endpoint.

> When you create a webhook, you receive a random token. This token allows you to verify the origin of POST requests to your endpoint. See [Webhook Security](3-security.md) for details on how to secure your webhook endpoint.

Reviewer: it would be useful to introduce a name for the token here

Reviewer: also there could be potential confusion here with the http origin header

| `device.created`     | Occurs when a new [Device](./importing-data#add-a-device) is added to your Org. | `deviceId`: The device ID.                                                            |
| `event.created`      | Occurs when a new [Event](./events) is added to your Org.                       | `eventId`: The event ID.                                                              |
| `ping`               | Ping event for debugging webhook endpoint connectivity.                         | `webhookId`: The webhook being pinged. Only this webhook will receive a notification. |

### Notifications

A notification is what your webhook endpoint receives when an event occurs. Notifications are delivered as POST requests to your HTTP(S) endpoint.

A notification is delivered in the following form:

#### Request headers

| Key                    | Value                                                                                |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `Content-Type`         | `application/json`                                                                   |

> | `fg-webhook-signature` | a SHA256 HMAC signature verifying the request body as originating from your webhook. |

Reviewer: it would be useful to say/link to how we get it here

Reviewer: err, sorry. This is coming to my endpoint. What's in the signature exactly? How do I use it for verification?

#### Request body

A JSON object with the following keys:

| Key                   | Type                        | Description                                                                                                                           |
| --------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `timestamp`           | RFC3339-formatted timestamp | When the event occurred                                                                                                               |

Reviewer: this wording is a bit ambiguous because we are documenting events that may be about "events". Maybe "when the webhook event was created"?

| `deliveryAttemptedAt` | RFC3339-formatted timestamp | When this delivery was attempted                                                                                                      |
| `webhookId`           | string                      | The ID of the webhook that notified your endpoint                                                                                     |

> | `eventId`             | string                      | A unique ID for this event. This is not unique across all notifications, since more than one webhook can notify about the same event. |

Reviewer: I think the description is confusing. "The ID of the associated webhook event".

| `payload`             | object                      | Data about the event.                                                                                                                 |

> The `payload` attribute will be an object with a `type` attribute matching the event type and some additional keys depending on the event type. See [Webhook Events](#webhook-events) above for descriptions of those keys.

Reviewer: the keys are at the top level along with "type"?

Also, is/should a version field be included?

### Deliveries

A delivery is an attempt to deliver a notification to your endpoint. Foxglove records recent deliveries along with details of failures, which can be viewed in the [setting for your Webhook](https://console.foxglove.dev/settings/webhooks/).

#### Delivery semantics

> We target at-least-once delivery semantics for webhook notifications. This means a notification can be delivered more than once. Admins may also manually retry failed deliveries. This means your application may receive a notification long after the event occurs.

Reviewer: what does "target" mean? Are we guaranteeing at-least-once or targeting? Is this a best-effort situation or can I report missed messages as bugs? I would replace this with "guarantee", or if that is not something we can do then we should discuss.

> The combination of the `webhookId` and `webhookEventId` in the notification request body is unique to that notification. To de-duplicate notification deliveries, you can use (`webhookId`, `webhookEventId`) as an idempotency key.

Reviewer: these sentences say the same thing. I think probably anyone who cares will be able to infer the second sentence.

### Webhook events

Webhook events are records of occurrences within your Foxglove org. A webhook event consists of a _timestamp_, an _event type_, and data about the event, specific to that type.

The following event types are available:

| Name                 | Description                                                                              |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `recording.imported` | Occurs when a recording finishes [importing](./importing-data).                          |
| `device.created`     | Occurs when a new [Device](./importing-data#add-a-device) is added to your organization. |
| `event.created`      | Occurs when a new [Event](./events) is added to your organization.                       |
| `ping`               | Ping event for debugging webhook endpoint connectivity.                                  |

### Notifications

A notification is what your webhook endpoint receives when an event occurs. Notifications are delivered as POST requests to your HTTPS endpoint.

> A notification is delivered in the following form:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The HTTP request of a notification contains the signature in the header and the notification details in the body.
```

| `fg-webhook-signature` | a SHA256 HMAC digest of the entire request body, with your webhook token as the secret. Used to verify the sender of the request. |

#### Request body

A JSON object with the following keys:

| Key              | Type                        | Description                                       |
| ---------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `timestamp`      | RFC3339-formatted timestamp | When the webhook event occurred                   |
| `attemptedAt`    | RFC3339-formatted timestamp | When this delivery was attempted                  |
| `webhookId`      | string                      | The ID of the webhook that notified your endpoint |
| `webhookEventId` | string                      | The ID of the associated webhook event.           |
| `type`           | string                      | The type of event                                 |

There is also an additional property with an object value type. The property name and value properties depend on the event type:

> | Event Type           | Name        | Value Properties                                                                     |

Author: Yep - I think that can wait until we have a more fully fleshed-out set of events types.

| -------------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `recording.imported` | `recording` | - `id`: The recording ID <p/> - `path`: The filepath the recording was created with. |
| `device.created`     | `device`    | - `id`: The device ID.                                                               |
| `event.created`      | `event`     | - `id`: The event ID.                                                                |
| `ping`               | `webhook`   | - `id`: The webhook ID.                                                              |

### Deliveries

> A delivery is an attempt to deliver a notification to your endpoint. Foxglove records recent deliveries along with details of failures, which can be viewed in the [setting for your Webhook](https://console.foxglove.dev/settings/webhooks/).

Reviewer 2: Distinction between notifications and deliveries is somewhat blurry.

Author: This is tricky, I tried to clarify further but I'm not sure I hit the mark.
